:ond Series 

APERS FOR WAR TIME. No. 24 



Biology and War 



By 
J. ARTHUR THOMSON, LL.D. 



Price T<a)opence 



HUMPHREY MILFORD 

OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS 

LONDON EDINBURGH GLASGOW NEW YORK 

TORONTO MELBOURNE BOMBAY 






PAPERS FOR WAR TIME 



First Series. Already published. 

1. CHRISTIANITY AND WAR. By the Rev. W. 
Temple, M.A. 

2. ARE WE WORTH FIGHTING FOR ? By the 

Rev. Richard Roberts. 

8. THE WOMAN'S PART. By Mrs. Luke Paget. 

4. BROTHERS ALL: THE WAR AND THE 
RACE QUESTION. By Edwyn Bevan, M.A. 

5. THE DECISIVE HOUR: IS IT LOST ? By J. H. 

Oldham, M.A. 

6. ACTIVE SERVICE : THE SHARE OF THE 
NON-COMBATANT. By the Rev. W. R. Maltby. 

7. THE WAR SPIRIT IN OUR NATIONAL LIFE. 

By the Rev. A. Herbert Gray, M.A. 

8. CHRISTIAN CONDUCT IN WAR TIME. By 

W. H. MOBERLY, M.A. 

9. THE WITNESS OF THE CHURCH IN THE 
PRESENT CRISIS. By X. 

10. THE REAL WAR. By the Rev. W. E. Orchard, 
D.D. 

11. LOVE CAME DOAVN AT CHRISTMAS. By 

Professor G. Hare Leonard, M.A. 

12. AN ANSWER TO BERNHARDI. By the Rev. 

Professor D. S. Cairns, D.D. 



Second Series 

PAPERS FOR WAR TIME. No. 24 



BIOLOGY AND WAR 

BY 

J. ARTHUR THOMSON, LL.D. 



HUMPHREY MILFORD 

OXFORD UiNIVERSITV PRESS 

LONDON EDINBURGH GLASGOW NEW YORK 

TORONTO MELBOURNE BOMBAY 

1915 



^. 






^S 



^^ 



BASIS OF PUBLICATION 

This series of Papers is based on the following convictions : 

1. That Great Britain was in August morally bound to 

declare war and is no less bound to carry the war 
to a decisive issue ; 

2. That the war is none the less an outcome and a revela- 

tion of the un-Christian principles which have dominated 
the life of Western Christendom and of which both 
the Church and the nations have need to repent ; 

3. That followers of Christ, as members of the Church, 

are linked to one another in a fellowship which 
transcends all divisions of nationality or race ; 

4. That the Christian duties of love and forgiveness are 

as binding in time of war as in time of peace ; 

5. That Christians are bound to recognize the insufficiency 

of mere compulsion for overcoming evil and to place 
supreme reliance upon spiritual forces and in particular 
upon the power and method of the Cross ; 

6. That only in proportion as Christian principles dictate 

the terms of settlement will a real and lasting peace 
be secured ; 

7. That it is the Hiity of thB .ChviBcli tJ3 make an altogether 

new effort to realize and ^pply to all the relations 
of life it^ yw/i: })b«itivpt ideal of': brotherhood and 
fellowship ; 

8. That with God all things are possible. 



BIOLOGY AND WAR 

When a mason builds a wall he continually tests his 
work with a plumb-line, a level, and a square. He applies 
three different tests to make sure that he is building well. 
Similarly in more complex social affairs where the issue 
is not clear, it is useful to apply several tests. When they 
confirm one another they strengthen our resolution ; when 
they are discrepant, they show us that there is need for 
further inquiry. 

Three familiar tests are to be found in the ideas of 
the conservation of energy, the conservation of life, and 
the conservation of moral values — physical, biological, and 
ethical respectively. The first test condemns an under- 
taking that is wasteful or that attempts to get more work 
done than the available energy allows \ and the useful 
criticism that a business man expresses when he calls a 
scheme unsound is often based on his discovery that 
physical principles are being ignored. The biological test 
asks whether- the activities in question are consistent with 
the health of the individual and with the welfare of the 
race. The third test asks if the line of action makes for 
the conservation of what we hold to be most precious and 
most beneficent in our social heritage — the traditions of 
civilized behaviour, the standard of conduct, and the ideal 
of goodwill among men. 

War Brought to the Test 

We are as a nation practicall}^ unanimous that after 
a certain, or rather uncertain, date, war was inevitable 
unless we were prepared to sacrifice honour and our 
traditions of championing justice and liberty. But this 
does not affect the fact that to have thousands of whole- 
some men in the prime of life mowed down with machine 

3 



tyr\A r%A o 



BIOLOGY AND WAR 

guns is an extreme of wastage Avithout parallel except in 
famine and plague. By the first or physical test war is 
condemned. 

When we turn to the social or ethical test, we find that 
the issues are intricate. It has to be remembered (1) that 
there may be nobility in the determination to go to war 
if there is no alternative course consistent with honour, 
justice, and freedom ; (2) that the waging of the war may 
afford opportunities for courage, endurance, magnanimity, 
and other virtues ; and (3) that a war which can be carried 
through with a good conscience may leave a nation 
spiritually enriched. On the other hand the actual fact 
of war is a detestable anachronism, full of deadly peril to 
the character of combatants and non-combatants alike. 
It seems to come upon the nations because the past is 
still too strong for them, as a surge of reversion which 
sweeps them off their feet. It is for us on whom war was 
forced to hope and pray that the proud waters will not 
go over our souls. 

But our special problem in this paper is to apply the 
second — the biological — test. Leaving, without forget- 
ing, the social heritage, we have to ask how war affects 
the natura inheritance of a race, and whether there is in 
organic nature any object-lesson which may make clearer 
to us the significance of human warfare. 

Effect of War on the Race 
Various positions are held in regard to the effect of war 
on the heritable qualities of a race. There is the view of 
the extreme militarists that war is indispensable. The 
nations have to be bled periodically, else they will become 
soft and adipose. According to Bernhardi, ' war is a bio- 
logical necessity of the first importance, a regulative ele- 
ment in the life of mankind.' It cannot be dispensed with, 
•since 'without it an unhealthy development will follow, 
which excludes every advancement of the race and there- 

4 



BIOLOGY AND WAR 

fore all real civilization '. There is the view that in ancient 
times war was (sometimes if not always) an eliminating 
process that made for progress, strengthening a tribe by 
the continual sifting out of those less fit for times when 
fighting was the order of the day ; and strengthening 
the race by the occasional ' wiping out ' of a weaker clan 
by a stronger ; but that this useful discriminate elimina- 
tion has entirely ceased with the change of conditions in 
modern warfare. There is the position that war is radi- 
cally dysgenic — that is to say, that it persistently sifts in 
the wrong direction, impoverishing the race by the loss 
of a disproportionate number of the more chivalrous, 
courageous, and patriotic. The best statement of this 
position is to be found in Chancellor Starr Jordan's im- 
pressive Human Harvest. We should also recall Darwin's 
sentence in the fifth chapter of The Descent of Man : ' The 
bravest men, who were always willing to come to the front 
in war, and who freely risked their lives for others, would 
on an average perish in larger numbers than other men.' 
There is the severely scientific position that the influence 
of war on a nation, biologically regarded, has not yet 
been investigated by competent statistical methods, and 
that no certain conclusion can be drawn. 

Discussion of these Positions 
Against the view that war is indispensable if the virile 
virtues are to be kept alive, it must be firmly maintained 
that in the tasks of peace there is ample opportunity for 
valour and heroism, and that the annals of exploration, 
investigation, medical practice, and the like are rich in 
illustrations of the highest courage. To admit, as we 
must, that there are worse things than war — slavery, 
softness, dishonour, and moral unsoundness generally — is 
not equivalent to saying that nobiUty cannot be kept alive 
without war. To admit that a nation may be forced to 
a crisis where a refusal to go to war would mean disgrace, 
> 5 



BIOLOGY AND WAR 

is not to admit that the battle-field must for ever remain 
our final court of appeal. 

It seems reasonable to draw a distinction between 
ancient and modern warfare. For in a battle in ancient 
days there may well have been a useful sifting out, on both 
sides, of the clumsy, the cowardly, and the cumbersome ; 
and a raid may have sometimes resulted in the practical 
elimination of the weaker of the two clans. Just as the 
brown rat's invasion of a country seems always to result in 
the extermination of the black rat, which has rather less 
fight in it, so it may have been sometimes in the history of 
mankind. But in modern warfare one nation does not 
exterminate another, and the battle is not always to the 
strong. Even if it can be proved that military efficiency 
does on the whole tend to secure victory, it is by no 
means to be taken for granted that it is based on qualities 
which make for soundness and progressiveness in a race. 

The severely scientific position that we have not sufficient 
data on which to base a secure judgement, may be met by 
indicating three conclusions which have a high degree of 
probability, although statistical proof is not forthcoming. 

(1) When a nation with voluntary military service is 
involved in war the more virile and chivalrous obey the 
call of their country in larger numbers, and their ranks are 
disproportionately thinned. Those who cannot fight are 
left and those who will not fight are left, and ' from the man 
who is left flows the current of human history ', as Starr 
Jordan puts it. It is true that a large number of brave and 
desirable men must remain at home to keep things going, 
and that the elimination does not greatly affect the women 
— two facts which counteract the impoverishment of the 
race, but it seems imdeniable that a voluntary army raised 
in a crisis includes a disproportionately large number of 
those whom the nation can least afford to lose. If the 
number of combatants be small compared with that of 
non-combatants, the casualties might not be of sufficient 

6 



BIOLOGY AND WAR 

magnitude to affect the welfare of the race, but if Britam, 
for instance, has to raise an army of three millions and 
a quarter, as may be necessary, that would be about 
half of the male population between 18 and 45, and it 
would not mean every second man by lot, but a larger 
proportion of the more patriotic and courageous. In this 
way it seems almost certain that war works precisely in 
the wrong direction as far as the heritable welfare of the 
race is concerned. 

(2) This is accentuated by the well-known facts that 
specially brave bodies of men are selected for very 
hazardous tasks in which the mortality is often great, 
and that particularly brave men run unusually great risks. 
The Victoria Cross has been repeatedly awarded to some 
hero who lost his life in the exploit which won him the 
distinction. It is true that the fortuitous bulks largely in 
the casualties of modern warfare, and that there is often no 
sifting at all, but simply a tragic indiscriminate elimina- 
tion, as when a battleship goes down. But where sifting 
does occur, it tends to be in the wrong direction, cutting 
off the very best. 

(3) There is another way in which war works in the 
wrong direction, by making life disproportionately difficult 
(and marriage often impossible) for the members of the 
race who are least readily replaceable. It is necessary 
to hold by the ideal of the state as a body politic — an 
organism — in which all wholesome men and women have 
their place and function, but it is plain enough that artists 
and discoverers, poets and reformers, are more precious 
than mediocrities. In the retrenchments that must follow 
a great war, in which hundreds of millions of pounds are 
spent unproductively, the tendency is to economize most 
on super-necessaries, and, unluckily, on the fuier super- 
necessaries, such as books, music, pictures, and higher 
education. This must tend to handicap most severely the 
more highly individuated members of the community. 

7 



BIOLOGY AND WAR 

The highly skilled, whose work seems to be most readily 
dispensed with, will be pinched most ; and they are cer- 
tainly part of the salt of the earth. 

War and the Struggle for Existence 

It is a common belief that the evolution of living 
creatures has been due to the struggle for existence, and 
it is a common doctrine that what has worked so well 
among plants and animals should be allowed to operate 
in mankind. In making war, it is said, we are following 
nature. As Bernhardi says, ' the decisions of war rest on 
the very nature of things. . . . The law of the stronger 
holds good everywhere.' This view involves numerous 
misunderstandings which must be pointed out. 

(a) To begin with, biologists are agreed that the essen- 
tial fact in evolution is the occurrence of variations or 
novelties. These furnish the raw materials of evolution 
and they are obviously indispensable. If they are to 
count they must be entailed or transmitted — heredity 
being one of the conditions of evolution. If they are to 
be more than beginnings they must stand the criticism of 
the conditions of life in which they have emerged, natural 
selection or natural elimination, which occurs in the course 
of the struggle for existence, being another of the condi- 
tions of evolution. Natural selection prunes off the rela- 
tively unfit new departures, but the struggle is not in 
itself the cause of progress ; it must have variations or 
differences of endowment to work on. 

(6) Moreover the struggle for existence does not neces- 
sarily make for evolution. In many cases it thins without 
sifting, and that does not make for racial change. Out of 
533 caterpillars of the large garden white butterfly col- 
lected by Professor Poulton, 422 died because Ichneumon 
flies had laid their eggs inside them. This was serious 
thinning, four out of five, but so far as we know those 
caterpillars that escaped being victimized were no better 

8 



BIOLOGY AND WAR 

than those that perished, so that there was no sifting. 
The indiscriminate elimination involved in thinning 
turnips with a hoe benefits the surviving individuals but 
it does not improve the race. The only result of the 
struggle for existence that is of direct evolutionary im- 
portance is discriminate elimination, where the presence 
or absence of a particular character determines survival, 
or, what comes to the same thing in the long run, deter- 
mines relative success in producing and rearing progeny. 
For it must be understood that the process of selection 
is often very slow and even gentle in its operations. 

(c) We must also notice the obstinate confusion of 
thought that selection in the struggle for existence must, 
automatically as it were, result in the survival of some- 
thing desirable. What it results in is the survival (im- 
mediate or distant) of the relatively more fit to the con- 
ditions of life. It may work towards degeneration as well 
as towards progress, as is well illustrated by that evasion 
of the struggle for existence called parasitism — ^the door 
to which is always open. The liver fluke is ' fit ' as well as 
the sheep, and the tapeworm is as weU adapted to its 
inglorious lot as the lark at heaven's gate. 

(d) But there is an even deeper misunderstanding. In 
spite of many protests, beginning with Darwin's, the idea 
of the struggle for existence has often been expressed in 
a narrow and wooden way. It is a fact of life much 
bigger and subtler than the words suggest, and we do well 
to bear in mind Darwin's proviso that the phrase was to 
be used ' in a large and metaphorical sense, including 
dependence of one being on another, and including (which 
is more important) not only the life of the individual, but 
success in leaving progeny ' . The phrase is a shorthand for- 
mula, summing up a vast variety of strife and endeavour, 
of thrust and parry, of action and reaction. 

What are the facts of the case ? Living .creatures are 
continually being confronted with overwhelming diffi- 

9 



BIOLOGY AND WAR 

culties and thwarting limitations. For some of these the 
living creatures are themselves responsible ; they multiply 
so rapidly that there is not enough food to go round, not 
even enough room to grow up in. We must recognize 
too, that in the course of time nutritive chains have been 
established, one creature eating another, and that another, 
through long series. Beyond that there is the self- 
assertiveness of the vigorous creature. The lusty animal 
tends to be at times a hustler, elbowing its way through 
the crowd, though at another time it will almost surpass 
man in its gentleness. Not less important is the irregular 
changefulness and inhospitality of the physical environ- 
ment. In the crowdedness, the carnivorousness, and the 
insurgence of life we see three reasons for the struggle for 
existence, and the fourth is to be found in the unpredictable 
vicissitudes of the callous surroundings. 

We have, then, an almost universal picture — insurgent 
creatures with a will to live, and surrounding them all 
manner of baffling difficulties and thwarting limitations. 
Whenever the creature answers back, reacts, asserts itself, 
girds up its loins against these difficulties, there is the 
struggle for existence. Where organisms do nothing or 
can do nothing — like the myriads of sea butterfhes 
engulfed in the huge cavern of a baleen whale's mouth — 
there seems no utility in speaking of the struggle for exis- 
tence. For the central idea is that of 'clash' between 
one organism and another or between organisms and the 
inanimate forces of nature. 

Different Forms of the Struggle for Existence 
The struggle may be between fellows of the same kith 
and kin, as when locust turns upon locust, and female 
spider on male spider, and stag upon stag, or as in the 
cannibalism in the cradle that occurs in the egg-capsules of 
the whelk. Or it may be between nearly related species, 
as Darwin illustrated by the internecine competition of 

10 



BIOLOGY AND WAR 

brown rat and black rat. The struggle may be between 
foes of entirely different nature — for instance, between 
carnivores and herbivores, between birds of prey and small 
mammals, between heather and bracken on the hills, 
between different kinds of trees in the tropical forest. 
The struggle may be between living creatures and the 
inanimate conditions of their life — for instance, between 
mammals and the winter, between plants and drought, 
between birds and the storm. When we compare the 
struggle between fellows and the struggle between foes 
with the third form of struggle, which we may describe as 
between living creatures and ' fate ', we see that in the 
third mode the element of competition has dropped out. 
Thus perhaps we begin to see something of the subtlety of 
the struggle for existence. But we must go further. 

The Creature's Reactions to Limitations and 
Difficulties 

What has got into circulation is a caricature of nature — 
an exaggeration of part of the truth. For while there is 
in wild nature much stern sifting, great infantile and 
juvenile mortahty, much redness of tooth and claw, and, 
outside of parasitism, a general condemnation of the unlit 
lamp and the ungirt loin, there is much more. In face of 
limitations and difficulties one organism intensifies com- 
petition, but another increases parental care ; one sharpens 
its weapons, but another makes some experiment in miitual 
aid ; one thickens its armour, but another triumphs by 
kin-sympathy. It is realized by few how much of the 
time and energy of living creatures is devoted to activities 
which are not to the advantage of the individual, but only 
to that of the race. Not that this need imply deliberate 
altruistic foresight, it is rather that in the course of nature's 
tactics survival and success have rewarded not only the 
strong and self-assertive, but also the loving and self- 
forgetful. Especially among the finer types part of the 

11 



BIOLOGY AND WAR 

fitness of the survivors has been their capacity for self- 
sacrifice. And even in the rougher forms of winnowing, 
must it not be recognized as part of nature's strategy that 
the individual organism, being kin-bound, realizes itself 
in subordination to the interests of the species and sub- 
mits to being lost that a larger welfare for the whole may 
be gained ? 

It is sometimes pointed out, however, that since evolution 
depends on individual variations and the sifting of these, 
we come back to the struggle between individuals. Thus 
Sir Ray Lankester writes : ' the struggle for existence, to 
which Darwin assigned importance, is not a struggle 
between species, but one between closely similar members 
of the same species.' As a matter of fact, Darwin assigned 
importance to many different forms of the struggle for 
existence, and although he heads a paragraph ' Struggle for 
life most severe between individuals and variations of the 
same species ; often severe between species of the same 
genus ', he did not bring forward many convincing illus- 
trations. Not that we would doubt that there is some- 
times in nature a Ufe and death struggle between fellows 
at the margin of subsistence ; what we are concerned to 
maintain is that the decisive clash is often not between 
competing fellows, but between organisms and their sur- 
roundings, both animate and inanimate. It is often the 
environment that prunes, and the struggle for existence 
need not be competitive at all ; it is illustrated not only by 
ruthless self-assertiveness, but also by all the endeavours 
of parent for offspring, of mate for mate, of kin for kin. 
The world is not only the abode of the strong, it is also 
the home of the loving.^ 

^ The general thesis we are stating has had several exponents, 
such as Herbert Spencer and Patrick Geddes. It finds vivid expres- 
sion in Kropotkin's Mutual Aid and Drummond's Ascent of Man, 
perhaps best of all in Cresson's UEspece et son Serviteur. Bishop 
Mercer has given a masterly statement of it in the Nineteenth Century, 

12 



BIOLOGY AND WAR 



The Struggle for Existence and the Web of Life 

There is another point of great importance, that the 
sifting that goes on in nature is necessa,rily in part deter- 
mined by the alread}' established inter-relations. Darwin 
laid great emphasis on the conception of the web of life — 
that nature is a vibrating system of subtle linkages. No 
organism lives or dies quite to itself. Earthworms have 
made most of the fertile soil, and their lives are ciu-iously 
intertwined with those of moles and birds, centipedes and 
ground-beetles ; cats have to do with next year's clover 
crop, and with the incidence of the plague in India ; eighty 
seeds germinated from one clodlet on one bird's foot ; 
squirrels affect the harvest and water- wagtails the health 
of the sheep. Darwin laid emphasis on these inter-rela- 
tions partly because, as a naturalist in the stricter sense, 
he was keenly interested in the actual life of living crea- 
tures as it is lived in nature, but partly because he dis- 
cerned that the sifting that goes on must always be in 
relation to the threads of the web of life. There is a con 
tinual tendency in nature to link lives together, to multiply 
inter-relations, to make an intricate vibrating system, 
and the selecting or sifting must operate not blindly or 
haphazardly, but in relation to what has been already 
established. The selection of variations is very far from 
being a chapter of accidents. The texture of the web of 
life is so fine that even an apparently trivial quality may 
be of vital importance in securing survival and success. 
Those variations are rejected which are incongruous with 
the established correlations of organisms. This idea is of 
great importance in regard to human life, for here again 
selection is in part determined by the existing systems of 
linkages. Thus man has in part replaced natural selection 

February 1915, which may serve as a useful correction of Huxley's 
famous Romanes Lecture on Evolution and Ethics. 

13 



BIOLOGY AND WAR 

by social or rational selection. To a large extent it is his 
prerogative to make his own sieves. 

War a Reversion to the Crudest and Most Primi- 
tive Mode of the Struggle for Existence 

Socially regarded, going to war may be (in our present 
state of civilization) the only course open to a nation that 
would stand for honour, justice, and liberty ; ethically 
regarded, waging war may afford opportunity for the 
development of high virtues ; biologically regarded, war 
is a reversion to that mode of the struggle for existence 
in which rats excel, namely internecine competition. We 
have seen that there are many forms of the struggle for 
existence ; we see no escape from the conclusion that war 
is a reversion to the crudest and most primitive form. 

If this be true, it behoves us to mingle fear with our 
pride, for there are serious risks of slipping down the rungs 
of the steep ladder of evolution. As Mr. Theodore Chambers 
points out in his admirable lecture on ' Eugenics and 
the War ' {The Eugenics Review, January 1915) : ' it is in 
the actual environment of war, when excitement reigns 
supreme, that the most unexpected deep-seated instincts 
receive a stimulus. Lust, cruelty, and blood-thirstiness 
on the one hand ; sympathy, courage, and affection on the 
other seem to be intensified. War brings out into bold 
relief the intensest emotions of good and evil. War tears off 
the decent garments of custom and leaves the soul naked.' 

Among non-combatants too there is apt to be deteriora- 
tion as well as ennoblement. If war, in spite of being 
illumined by heroism and endurance, in spite of being 
embellished by the achievements of science, is in essence 
a return to the crudest form of the struggle for existence, 
our necessary preoccupation with it is full of danger. 
Some of the risks may already be seen in ungenerous and 
inaccurate depreciation of German culture, in unworthy 
scaremongering, in unkind ness to aliens, in excited talk 

14 



BIOLOGY AHI) :vVAR::: .••;.:;::•.;: a 

of barbarous reprisals and impossible humiliations, and in 
ill-considered readiness to rush into schemes which would 
mean that we were falling victims to one of the national 
diseases, namely militarism, which we are combating in 
our enemies. To quote from our Galton Lecture {Eugenics 
Revieiv, April 1915): 'What sowings of dragon's teeth 
there must be in the terrible struggle of this war ; is it 
weak to be afraid lest by and by in the crop that springs 
from them there may be something worse than armed 
men ? ' The past lives on in our present ; the ape and 
the tiger die hard ; there is always, as Tennyson said, 
a dread risk of reversion dragging evolution in the mud. 

To sum up, man is fortunately not shut up to searching 
in nature for guidance, but if he does look carefully enough 
in that direction, he will find nature has another message 
besides, * Each for himself, and elimination take the hind- 
most ; contention is the vital force ; and careers are open 
to talons.' There is another message — much harder to 
obey — of subordinating individual gratification to species 
welfare. And again, if man does insist on following, as in 
war, the mode of the struggle for existence in which rats 
excel, he must not delude himself with the hope that it 
will necessarily result in the survival of the fittest in any 
progressive sense. The most desirable types are apt to 
get sifted out, leaving the race impoverished. 

In Conclusion 
The argument of this paper is that from a biological 
point of view war must be regarded with anxiety since it 
makes for the impoverishment of the race by sifting out 
a disproportionately large number of those whom we can 
least afford to lose, and that far from being in full accor- 
dance with nature's message to man it is a reversion to the 
crudest and most primitive form of the struggle for exis- 
tence, and therefore to be regarded wdth peculiar fear. At 
the present time, when we are involved in a terrible war 

15 



•BIOIrOaY AND WAR 

which we believe to be righteous, every energy should be 
brought to bear, 'with a .single mind andmth concentrated 
purpose, in order to achieve, successfully and gloriously, 
the end we have in view.' But it behoves us also to order 
our minds so that the issue may work towards a victory 
over the evil (in ourselves as well as in others) which makes 
war possible between Christian and civilized nations. 

If this war brings racial impoverishment, as it seems 
bound to do, what counteractives are possible ? (a) We 
may perhaps look for a more marked disapproval of 
selfish forms of celibacy and a stronger encouragement of 
chivalrous marriages, (b) There may spring up a fresh- 
ened enthusiasm for all-round fitness and a high standard 
of health, and it must be granted that all improvements 
of ' nurture ' in the widest sense are to the good as long 
as it is clearly recognized that veneering does not make 
bad wood sound. Perhaps our losses may strengthen our 
resolution to face the national wastage due to tuberculosis, 
and to improve the conditions that are in part to blame 
for the evils which most weaken us as a nation, (c) Some 
clearer understanding of what selection means may lead 
us to scrutinize the retrenchments which the costliness of 
the war will necessitate. To economize upon the nobler 
super-necessaries means crippling such super-men as 
painters and musicians. May we not try pinching our- 
selves in our comforts before we begin starving our souls ? 
(d) What the biologist is most concerned with is the 
natural inheritance of the race, which is fundamental, and 
in this regard the outlook cannot but be gloomy, whe:i 
Britain is losing many of the very best of her sons. But 
we are also concerned with our social heritage, which is 
supreme, with for instance our traditions and ideals of 
honour, veracity, courage, justice, and goodwill among 
men. It rests with us, each in his own way, to try to 
secure that if our natural inheritance is impoverished, 
our social heritage may be enriched. 

16 



v"'i*^> ,■?;'' 



.y-^,;. 






RETURN TO the circulation desl< of any 
University of California Library 
or to the 
NORTHERN REGIONAL LIBRARY FACILITY 
BIdg, 400, Richmond Field Station 
University of California 
Richmond, CA 94804-4698 

ALL BOOKS MAY BE RECALLED AFTER 7 DAYS 

• 2-month loans may be renewed by calling 
(510)642-6753 

• 1-year loans may be recharged by bringing 
books to NRLF 

• Renewals and recharges may be made 4 
days prior to due date. 

DUE AS STAMPED BELOW 



lie 
ies 



•X 



I 1 20Q2 




i 



12.000(11/95) 



25; 

Winchester. 
26. BERNHARDISM 11^ 

Brock. " 

Further papers t c m preparation. 



^y A. Glutton 



OXFORD : HOBACK HART, FBINTEa TO THX UMIVEUSITT' 



MAKERS 



l!,,,|;2,.'^'^^Lf^ LIBRA™ 




<^045mt,wq3 



^ 



^o I t 






UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY 





.-'^-r^ 







